CosmOS Disk Format

Revision 1 - 13 September 2020

All data is little-endian.  Blocks are 512 bytes in length; if the block size 
of the underlying storage medium diverges like that, implementations will need 
to be prepared to convert.  Block addresses are pointers to 512-byte blocks, 
such that block address 0 points to byte 0, block address 1 points to byte 512, 
block address 2 to byte 1024, and so forth.

CONCEPTS:

	1) Data Space
	A data space is the atomic unit of storage in the CosmOS Disk Format.  
	These are the on-disk structures that hold user data, and are designed 
	to be transcluded within multiple presentations.  This enables not just 
	reuse of data (space efficiency is NOT a design goal here, and in fact 
	the fragmentation means that this will probably be less space-efficient 
	than a traditional filesystem except in extreme cases of repetitive 
	transclusion), but also (more importantly) automatic updating of shared 
	contents between multiple presentations.  For example, if a particular 
	data space contains a person's phone number, then if that person's 
	phone number changes only the data space itself has to be updated, and 
	all presentations that transclude the data space will reflect the 
	change.  Data spaces can also be forked, which is useful e.g. if a data 
	space's content changes but it is also important to keep the original 
	content accessible for transclusion.
	
	2) Presentation
	A presentation is the immediate user-visible data unit.  It is most 
	analogous to "documents" in a traditional file system, except it does 
	not actually store any data itself.  Instead, it consists of a set of 
	references to data spaces, which may include data spaces for shared 
	data, data spaces for formatting information, or data spaces that 
	describe the relationship among the other data spaces in the 
	presentation.  There is no provision for including any data other than 
	data-space references within a presentation.
	
	3) Group
	A group is a means of organizing presentations and data spaces.  A 
	group can contain any combination of one or more presentations, data 
	spaces, and groups.  There is no format-enforced hierarchy: a given 
	data space or presentation can be included in multiple groups, and a 
	group itself can also be included in multiple groups.  Circular groups 
	are also allowed: Group A can contain Group B, which can then be 
	modified to include Group A.

SUPERBLOCK - at block 1, block 1,000,001, block 2,000,001, etc.
	qword #		Description
	0		Magic word = 0x303244594C4F4647
	1		Last mount time (in seconds since midnight UTC January 
			1, 1900 - NTP epoch)
	3		location of primary data space directory (LBA block)
	4		location of primary presentation directory (LBA block)
	5		location of primary group directory (LBA block)
	6-63		reserved for future expansion
	
DATA SPACE/PRESENTATION/GROUP DIRECTORY
	qword #		Description
	0		Magic word = 0x30324D4C424D4C42 for data space 
			directory, 0x4E45444942454F4A for presentation directory)
	1		address of previous data space/presentation/group 
			directory (0 if this is the first directory)
	2		address of next data space/presentation/group directory 
			(0 if this is the last directory)
	3		address of first data space/presentation/group pointed 
			to in directory
	4		address of second data space/presentation/group pointed 
			to in directory, or 0 if no further entries
	.
	.
	.
	63		address of 61st data space/presentation/group pointed 
			to in directory, or 0 if no further entries